# ToDoList
ToDoList is a simple To-Do List application I created using JavaFX. This was a college project intended to test my understanding of Object-Oriented Programming principles and JavaFX.

The app allows users to add tasks to a To-Do List through a form specifying the task name, type and due date. Tasks of the same name cannot be submitted, but if a task with the same name and type is submitted with a different due date, then this simply updates the due date for the task. The To-Do List is displayed as a table showing the task, task type, time it was posted, and time that it is due. These tasks can be taken off the To-Do List when they are completed, and they are then displayed in a completed tasks table. 

As this was a college project, I was not allowed to use any plug-ins so the code is all simple JavaFX. The code for the app is all in one file with one main ToDoList class that extends the Application class. Within this class we have the main and start functions as required by the Application class, as well as a nested class called Task. The main function launches the app while the start function contains the bulk of the code for the app. This includes the layout and UI on the front-end of the app as well as functions for enqueuing and dequeuing tasks from the To-Do List on the back-end of the app. The Task nested class represents a Task object which can be added to the observable array lists that contain the tasks that need to be done and the completed tasks. The class contains a constructor for Task objects, a copy constructor, and getters and setter to change Tasks attributes as necessary. Using a separate class to represent Tasks simplified the process of displaying the tasks on the users screen, changing the due date when needed, and implementing many other features of the app.

All in all, working on this To-Do List application allowed me to gain a basic understanding of JavaFX and see how Object-Oriented Programming principles can be used in practice to improve code. I intend to continue working on this project on my own outside of college where there are no restrictions in place to learn about more advanced JavaFX concepts and improve the app in general.

